OpenSSL Security Advisory [11-Nov-2009]
=======================================

A potentially serious flaw in SSL and TLS has been worked around in
OpenSSL 0.9.8l.

Since many changes had occurred on the 0.9.8 branch without a public
release it was decided to release 0.9.8l based on the last publicly
tested release version 0.9.8k.

Man-in-the-middle Renegotiation Attack
======================================

A man-in-the-middle (MitM) can intercept an SSL connection and instead
make his own connection to the server. He can then send arbitrary data
and trigger a renegotiation using the client's original connection
data.

From the server's point of view the client simply connected, sent
data, renegotiated and continued.

From the client's point of view he connects to the server
normally. There is no indication at the SSL level that the attack
occurred. There may be indications at the level of the protocol
layered on top of SSL, for example, unexpected or pipelined responses.

This attack can also be performed when the server requests a
renegotiation - in this variant, the MitM would wait for the server's
renegotiation request and at that point replay the clients original
connection data.

Once the original client connection data has been replayed, the MitM
can no longer inject data, nor can he read the traffic over the SSL
connection in either direction.

Workaround
==========

The workaround in 0.9.8l simply bans all renegotiation. Because of the
nature of the attack, this is only an effective defence when deployed
on servers. Upgraded clients will still be vulnerable.

Servers that need renegotiation to function correctly obviously cannot
deploy this fix without breakage.

Severity
========

Because of the enormous difficulty of analysing every possible attack
on every protocol that is layered on SSL, the OpenSSL Team classify
this as a severe issue and recommend that everyone who does not rely
on renegotiation deploy 0.9.8l as soon as possible.

History
=======

A small number of people knew about the problem in advance under NDA
and a comprehensive fix was being developed. Unfortunately the issue
was independently discovered and the details made public so a less
than ideal brute force emergency fix had to be developed and released.

Future Plans
============

A TLS extension has been defined which will cryptographically bind the
session before renegotiation to the session after. We are working on
incorporating this into 0.9.8m, which will also incorporate a number
of other security and bug fixes.

Because renegotiation is, in practice, rarely used we will not be
rushing the production of 0.9.8m, but will instead test
interoperability with other implementations, and ensure the stability
of the other fixes before release.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to Marsh Ray, who discovered the issue, and Steve Dispensa of
PhoneFactor. Also thanks to ICASI who managed the early coordination
of this issue.

References
===========

CVE-2009-3555:
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2009-3555

TLS extension:
https://svn.resiprocate.org/rep/ietf-drafts/ekr/draft-rescorla-tls-renegotiate.txt

URL for this Security Advisory:
https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20091111.txt

