OpenSSL Security Advisory [6 December 2019]
===========================================

rsaz_512_sqr overflow bug on x86_64 (CVE-2019-1551)
===================================================

Severity: Low

There is an overflow bug in the x64_64 Montgomery squaring procedure used in
exponentiation with 512-bit moduli. No EC algorithms are affected. Analysis
suggests that attacks against 2-prime RSA1024, 3-prime RSA1536, and DSA1024 as a
result of this defect would be very difficult to perform and are not believed
likely. Attacks against DH512 are considered just feasible. However, for an
attack the target would have to re-use the DH512 private key, which is not
recommended anyway. Also applications directly using the low level API
BN_mod_exp may be affected if they use BN_FLG_CONSTTIME.

OpenSSL versions 1.1.1 and 1.0.2 are affected by this issue. However due to the
low severity of this issue we are not creating new releases at this time. The
1.1.1 mitigation for this issue can be found in commit 419102400. The 1.0.2
mitigation for this issue can be found in commit f1c5eea8a.

This issue was found by OSS-Fuzz and Guido Vranken and reported to OpenSSL on
12th September 2019. The fix was developed by Andy Polyakov with additional
analysis by Bernd Edlinger.

Note
=====

OpenSSL 1.0.2 is currently only receiving security updates. Support for 1.0.2
will end on 31st December 2019. Extended support is available for premium
support customers: https://www.openssl.org/support/contracts.html

OpenSSL 1.1.0 is out of support and no longer receiving updates. It is unknown
whether issues in this advisory affect it.

Users of these versions should upgrade to OpenSSL 1.1.1.

References
==========

URL for this Security Advisory:
https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv/20191206.txt

Note: the online version of the advisory may be updated with additional details
over time.

For details of OpenSSL severity classifications please see:
https://www.openssl.org/policies/secpolicy.html
